[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and louise mentioned
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning the government insists that
oxford astrazeneca coveted vaccine
is safe after more european nations
pours its use
the oxford astrazeneca vaccine is saving
lives in the uk
right now so if you get the call get the
jab the
taxi hailing app uber will pay its uk
drivers a minimum wage
holiday pay and pensions following a
landmark supreme court ruling
does the vaccine roll out equal holiday
time good morning piano become the
latest company to ask for vaccine proof
before boarding some of their trips i'll
ask the boss how it'll work
manchester city in complete control in
the champions league
last night they beat the german side
borussia monchengladbach two-nil and
cruise
comfortably into the quarterfinals
good morning yesterday wales and
scotland had the warmest day of this
year
so far not going to be quite as mild
across the board today although it still
will be mild
for many of us it's going to be dry with
some sunshine but some showers
in the southeast i'll have all the
details later in the programme
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday it's the
17th of march and the health secretary
has insisted the oxford astrazeneca
vaccine is safe and urged all uk
citizens to get the jab as soon as it's
offered matt hancock was speaking after
sweden and latvia became the latest
european countries to stop
offering the vaccine following safety
concerns dan johnson has more
info on the vaccines
from the oxford university across europe
there are questions
in italy vaccination centers stand empty
whilst presumably coronavirus keeps
spreading
the concern is blood clots astrazeneca
says there have been
37 incidents of blood clots in the uk
and eu but that is following 17
million jabs in germany seven rare clots
in the brain
and three deaths have been recorded
health officials there
say the responsible move is to pause
investigate each case and re-evaluate
the european medicine regulator says the
overall rates of clots
are actually lower than you'd expect in
the general population
and delays could mean more covid cases
and more lives lost
the dummies to confidence in the vaccine
just seems
a dreadful price to pay in order to
signal some sort of
yes we are looking at safety and we're
airing on the side of caution this is an
airing on the side of caution it's
throwing caution to the wind
in austria one batch of the vaccine has
been held back
while others are still being given
leaving some people like manfred
concerned
i wouldn't recommend to get it now
for me i'm a bit
scared to get ill off the vaccine
but angelika is pleased she's had her
first dose
because if you get kobit 19 and you have
a really bad
issues you never know
then it's better to take it
vaccine take up in the uk is among the
highest in the world
and the message couldn't be clearer the
oxford astrazeneca
jab is safe we know that over 10 million
people have had it
in the this country and that's what the
the british regulator says but also the
world health organization and even the
european regulator a european safety
review will be published tomorrow
and france has said if it gets the all
clear it will restart
immediately for some countries this is
about being careful to ensure
confidence in vaccination programs
there's also awareness
that doubts about vaccines can be just
as contagious
as viruses and if one spreads so will
the other
dan johnson bbc news
more than 70 000 uber drivers across the
uk will start receiving the minimum
legal wage from today along with paid
holiday
and pension rights it follows a ruling
in the uk supreme court which could have
a significant impact on the so-called
gig economy for freelance workers
our transport correspondent caroline
davis has more
it was the company that shook up the
system but the system
seems to have caught up with uber after
last month's verdict by the supreme
court
it's announced that all of its drivers
will be classed as workers
for years politicians and unions have
said that you have been
playing fast and loose with employment
rights does this
not prove that they were right all along
i think the
the the situation for employment in the
uk has been
ambiguous for some time you've taken
advantage of those ambiguities haven't
you
we we have tried we have worked as hard
as we can to try and provide
drivers with a good way of earning the
flexibility that they want and the
protections that they have
but we can now go further than we've
gone before because of the clarity that
the supreme court ruling
brings us drivers will still be able to
work when and where they want
the company's minimum wage only applies
once a driver accepts a ride
are passengers going to see their fares
rise because this will be costly to you
um so we're not expecting to raise
prices at the current time we absolutely
want to remain price competitive so is
this going to come out of
the driver's income instead where's that
money going to come from
our expectation is is actually we can
grow the business by by
treating drivers well bringing drivers
onto the platform
and also by growing with cities as they
unlock
one drivers union was pleased i wish
they'd done this five years ago
i wish they'd have listened then however
they appear to be listening
now and this is a tremendous victory
for working people in this country
this decision could have implications
across the gig economy
uber is is probably the most well-known
and potentially the biggest player in
the geek economy
and other operators will be looking
closely at this and thinking
well after six years of litigation
uber had to give in to to the inevitable
and agree that their drivers were
workers so
we probably need to be doing the same
this move is a fundamental change
and it's one that will be closely
watched around the world
caroline davis bbc news eight people
have been killed in a spate of shootings
at three massage parlors in the u.s city
of atlanta
at least six of the victims are
understood to be women of asian heritage
and police say it's likely that the same
gunman was responsible for all
three attacks a 21 year old man is being
questioned
hair salons and garden centers in
scotland will be allowed to open from
the 5th of april under a lockdown easing
plan announced by the first minister
nicola sturgeon
residents will have to stay in their own
local authority area until april the
26th when
shops and gyms will also reopen our
scotland reporter alexandra mckenzie is
at a garden center in glasgow and i know
some people like their
people there will be delighted that
there are changing rules coming along
yes absolutely these rules are coming in
quite slowly and quite
cautiously and you mentioned the 26th of
april there
that's the main day when much of the
economy
is going to open up so we've got to wait
a few weeks until then that's when
hospitality will open up retail and
gyms but a little bit before that on the
5th of april we'll see
hairdressers thankfully opening up and
garden centers like this one
in the west end of glasgow now i'm
joined by martin mccarron you heard
yesterday that you're going to be able
to
open up on the 5th of april how
surprised were you by that
and what preparations have you got to
put in place
well i've been planning for the start of
april so it wasn't a huge surprise
and but at that point obviously it was
just a guessing game so it's good to get
a definite date and we have kind of half
stalked the place so we're
almost ready to go we just need to call
in the rest of the stock now
and we'll be ready to go
and how difficult has it been you've
been closed for quite some time now
since around christmas time so
how difficult has that been there's
quite a lot of a lot of plants here so
you're relying on getting stock
through and obviously keeping it all
fresh it's been pretty tough
especially with the weather we've had as
well we've lost quite a lot of stock
during those three months and but we've
we've managed to get the place turned
around and get it tidy and ready we've
been sitting in anticipation for this so
we will be we'll be ready to go in the
fifth and you are an
outside business do you think you could
possibly have opened up
a bit sooner because we are told it is a
bit safer to be outside
100 we could have but i understand that
was a bigger picture as well so i was
just listening that everyone's in the
same boat and everyone's had to do the
same thing so
that's that's of your point i've took
with it you know that's great thank you
very much now
nicola sturgeon said in the scottish
parliament yesterday that she
was the most hopeful that she had been
for a while but also there was a note of
caution
she said that these dates depend very
much on suppressing the virus
alexandra thank you very much indeed
well northern ireland has also unveiled
its plans to relax restrictions from
next month
six people from two households will be
allowed to meet in a private garden from
april the first
and groups of up to 10 will be allowed
to play sports outdoors
the first minister arlene foster called
the plans cautious but optimistic
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news